---
layout: post_no_comments
title: On Microsoft and Metro
---

<span class="drops">I</span>'ve been disappointed by Microsoft ever since I've been into Technology. Buggy OSes, complicated software, ugly programming languages made me see Microsoft merely as a giant tech company stuck in the 80s. 

It's not cheap or any good to the company, to be stuck. Someone may argue they are still billionaires and 80%+ of the world runs their Software, but how pointful is it now? Do most people use Windows because they like it better? I don't think so.

Microsoft is big, very big. But I wonder how bigger they could be by now, considering they were - 18 years ago - the most capable company to enter and explore the Internet. Their incompetence made they lose their image as an "innovation player", if I can put it this way.

All this said I'm glad Microsoft has shipped Metro on their mobile OS. A friend of mine is got a Windows Phone and I can safely say the experience I had using it for less than 30 minutes was the best I've ever had with a smartphone. The interaction is just great.

Speaking of the Windows Phone UX again, it feels much more natural for a mobile device than iOS and Android (which have basically the same flow).

I'm suspicious about Metro going to the Desktop, though. What may make sense to a phone may make no sense to a Desktop at all. I hope Microsoft doesn't piss on their own foot again.

I'm glad Microsoft finally appears to be into **innovation** again. I wonder how hard it must be for such a huge company to keep on creating smart things.