---
layout: post
title: Introducing Brechoh
---

<span class="drops">I</span>n late 2011 while still working in Eventick <a href="#foot-link-1">[1]</a>, I had the idea of an online marketplace that focuses on local deals and is heavily based on mobile usage and social networking. I told it to Thiago Diniz <a href="#foot-link-2">[2]</a>, who was my boss back then and he said he liked the idea and that it seemed interesting...

## TL ; DR

My team and me launched [Brechoh], a Brazilian online marketplace for people to sell and buy their stuff. We're starting focusing more on girls who want to deal personal stuff (shoes, makeup, clothes) because our studies showed how much they are in need of a product to make their lives easier.

## Continue reading the story...

....back then I was really not into starting up my own business and was focusing in other stuff, a.k.a Computer Science and Programming Languages.

The idea of the product, kept occupying space in my mind. For almost 6 months I though of it frequently but hadn't decided if it was going to be or not.

In late May I told a friend the idea and he liked it. We decided to start the business together and began studying the business model, defining methodically everything the app would do, deciding whether we'd launch a mobile version first or not, etc.

Then in early July we had to find a designer, we were desperate for it. We had already found a guy who was cheaper than everyone else but that did not deliver anything we liked. Our last hope was to try to make Jadson [3], a designer we knew and trusted, join our team.

He accepted and we'll got very excited about starting up a business and having a team and all this romantic stuff.

It took 3 months for us to ship Brechoh (we were all working full-time in another company) and, looking back, so many things have changed and evoluted regarding to the business model that I finally realize how hard it is to ship software regardless of how complex it is.

I'm glad Brechoh was finally shipped. It's finally ready to get validated in the real world, by real people. I think we're onto something interesting :)

<p class="foot-link" id="foot-link-1">[1]: [Eventick] is a brazilian event management site for all kinds of events. It makes it dead-easy for organizers to sell and broadcast their tickets online and makes it even simpler for attendees to buy them. I worked there for 2 weeks.</p>

<p class="foot-link" id="foot-link-2">[2]: [Thiago Diniz], Eventick's CEO.</p>

<p class="foot-link" id="foot-link-3">[3]: [Jadson Dantas], Brechoh's Designer and CPO.</p>

[Brechoh]: http://brechoh.com.br
[Eventick]: http://eventick.com.br
[Thiago Diniz]: http://twitter.com/dinizz
[Jadson Dantas]: http://www.jadsondantas.com/
