---
layout: post
title: On Software and Generalism
---

<span class="drops">R</span>ecently I had a brief discussion with my coworkers/chiefs regarding the importance of generalism in a Software company and/or to an individual developer. For example, let's say you develop web applications: you write Python code that deals with the database and the server, sends the HTML to the browser when the request finishes. You also write the HTML itself and the JavaScript for the AJAX-based features. Should you also write the CSS, know how to place the elements, set the backgrounds of the pages, know what grid system to use?

My short answer is *no*. Generalism isn't a requirement, nor should it be. 

The main related question is: _Should software shops and software developers be generalist?_ My answer is *neither*. For this very reason, there are (great) software shops that take projects and do not design it, instead, they outsource this part of the work. In the same way, we shouldn't expect web designers to write Python code, should we?

Analogically, if you have a Civil Engineering firm, should you expect your engineers to also design (even partially) the buildings? Could you even expect them to know what are the best windows, doors and whether the main entrance should have a Ancient Greek statue or not? A Civil Engineer must be good at Architecture, right? 

Well, I don't think so.

The argument I heard was*:

<blockquote>
  For a good Web Company, it is impossible for one not be a generalist. CSS may get you stuck sometimes, but there is not Web without it, so in order anyone of us (company members) to be able to deploy a website, we have to know how to build whatever is necessary, even if not in the most efficient way...that's another history. So you can't escape it.
</blockquote>

Again, the argument sounds right to me except for the fact that it presents Generalism as a requirement, which I refute.

In a software company, although not as a requirement for existing, design may be expected to be present, but in a situation where there are dedicated professionals for Design and Programming matters, as you'd expect a Civil Engineering firm to get a building built and designed when there are Engineers and Architects.

When we go the the individual side, it just sounds implausible to me. To *claim* that a developer should know Python and JavaScript, and also CSS, for example.


This discussion also reminds me of a tweet by "Chris Dixon":http://cdixon.org/ where he stated:

<blockquote>
  <blockquote class="twitter-tweet tw-align-center"><p>"Desingineer" -&gt; mythical person startups are looking for who can do UI, UX and also excellent front- and back-end coding.</p>&mdash; chris dixon (@cdixon) <a href="https://twitter.com/cdixon/status/148896542462455808" data-datetime="2011-12-19T22:44:36+00:00">December 19, 2011</a></blockquote>
  <script src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

I think there is no problem for a Programmer to know Web Design, or to master it. But he/she must want it, as it is a *plus*, not a basic/must-have skill. 

* This argument was translated from Portuguese and I think it's a precise translation. Anyway, my chief and coworker (author of the argument) has already been notified about the post and invited to read and reply (I promise I'll post his answer).
